README.md, before:

## Hugging Face Model Management

Model pushes to Hugging Face Hub are performed locally using `utils/test_hf_push.py`.
This ensures large files and credentials are managed securely and are not exposed in CI/CD pipelines.
The CI pipeline does not push models to Hugging Face.
# South of Tethys - Procedural Storytelling Engine

A procedurally evolving storytelling engine inspired by world simulation games like **Dwarf Fortress**. This project manages story events, character genealogy, and evolving flora/fauna in a version-controlled Git repository. Story snippets are now processed using our own Hugging Face AI model for structured extraction.

## 📖 Published Book & Artifacts

The complete "book" of South of Tethys is automatically published with each update:

- **📚 [View Published Book](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/)** - Complete timeline, maps, and world data
- **🗺️ [Interactive World Map](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/interactive_map.html)** - Explore the world geography
- **📊 [Visual Timeline](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/timeline_mermaid.html)** - Event progression flowchart

### 🚀 Publishing Your Changes

1. **Make changes** to timeline, characters, or world data
2. **Test locally**: `python utils/lint_story.py`
3. **Commit and push** to trigger automatic publication
4. **Manual publication**: Use [GitHub Actions](../../actions) → "CI" → "Run workflow"

See **[📋 Publishing Workflow Guide](docs/PUBLISHING.md)** for complete instructions.

---

## 🛡️ Pre-commit Integration Steps

1. **Place your `.pre-commit-config.yaml` in the project root.**
2. **Add tool-specific configs** (`.flake8`, `pyproject.toml`, `mypy.ini`, `.bandit.yml`) as described in the repo or documentation.
3. **Run `pre-commit install`** to activate hooks for all contributors:
   ```bash
   pip install pre-commit
   pre-commit install
   ```
4. **Run manually (optional):**
   ```bash
   pre-commit run --all-files
   ```

#### Local Auto-formatting with `.git/hooks/pre-commit`

For additional local enforcement, you can use a custom pre-commit hook script in `.git/hooks/pre-commit` to automatically run code formatters and linters before each commit.  
This script will run tools like `black`, `isort`, `autoflake`, `pyupgrade`, `ruff`, and `flake8` on all Python files in the project.

**Sample usage:**
```bash
cp .git/hooks/pre-commit.sample .git/hooks/pre-commit
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
```
This ensures code quality and formatting are enforced locally before changes are committed.  
**Note:** The CI pipeline only runs lint checks and does not auto-fix or format code.

### Manual Code Quality Commands

Before running the following commands, make sure all tools are installed:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can then run the following commands to auto-correct and lint your codebase (recommended: run on the entire project):

```bash
python -m black ./**/*.py --line-length 88
python -m isort ./**/*.py --profile black
python -m autoflake --in-place --remove-unused-variables --remove-all-unused-imports --ignore-init-module-imports ./**/*.py
python -m pyupgrade --py39-plus ./**/*.py
python -m flake8 ./**/*.py
python -m ruff check ./**/*.py --fix
```

### Recommended Minimal Setup
For most Python projects, start with:

- `black` (formatting)
- `isort` (imports)
- `flake8` (linting)
- `pre-commit-hooks` (basic hygiene)

Add `mypy`, `bandit`, and others as your codebase grows or if you need stricter checks.

# Chronology of Jambudweepa  
*From Primordial Seas to City-States*  

---

## ⏳ **Prehistoric Foundations**  
### (c. 500–250 Million Years Ago)  
- **Invertebrate Dominion**:  
  Ammonoids rule shallow seas. The **Ammonite Man** emerges as first spiritual entity - a cephalopod sage whispering through coral reefs.  
- **Avian-Synapsid Epoch**:  
  Flightless therapod birds and sail-backed synapsids dominate landmasses. **Owlman** appears as nocturnal guardian of forests.  

---

## 🐒 **Age of Vanaras**  
### (c. 50–5 Million Years Ago)  
1. **Vanara Zenith**:  
   - Proto-primates develop tool use and fire mastery in **Gondwana forests**  
   - Build tree-cities in the **Nilgiri Canopy** (southern Jambudweepa)  
2. **Great Devolvement**:  
   - Climate shifts fracture civilization  
   - Descendants regress to modern monkeys  
   - **Lionman** appears as sun-spirit guiding scattered tribes  

---

## 🚶 **Human Migrations**  
*(Wave Settlement Pattern: Northwest → East/South)*  

| **Era**         | **Group**       | **Origin**          | **Settlement**          | **Key Traits**                  |  
|-----------------|-----------------|---------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------|  
| c. 50,000 BCE | **Jharwa**      | Zagros Mountains    | Saraswati Delta         | Cave painters, shell worshippers |  
| c. 10,000 BCE | **Vedda**       | Caspian Steppes     | Ganges Plain            | Horse tamers, fire ritualists    |  
| c. 5,000 BCE  | **Naga**        | Indus Valley        | Deccan Plateau          | Serpent cults, metalworkers      |  
| c. 3,000 BCE  | **Outliers**    | Hybrid populations  | Fringe regions          | Vanara-human mixes, bird-speakers |  

---

## 🌀 **Spiritual Beings & Gates**  
### (Timeless Entities)  
| **Being**         | **Manifestation**                     | **Domain**               |  
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------|  
| **Ammonite Man**  | Spiraling nautilus-shell form         | Tethys Sea depths        |  
| **Owlman**        | Feathered humanoid with 360° neck     | Deciduous forests        |  
| **Lionman**       | Maned solar deity with obsidian claws | Deserts/Savannas         |  
| **Gatekeepers**   | Shape-shifting stone sentinels        | Dwarka portals           |  

### 🔮 **Interdimensional Gates**  
- **Dwarka Mechanism**:  
  Stone arches pulsating with blue energy, appearing at cosmic alignments  
  - **Function**: Bridges physical realm with **Asura Loka** (demon dimension)  
  - **Current Status**: Dormant beneath Dwarka city's foundations  
- **Other Portals**:  
  - **Yaksha Gates**: Hidden in Narmada Valley monoliths  
  - **Rakshasha Vortices**: Swirling sand pits in Gedrosian Desert  

---

## 🏺 **Civilization Dawn**  
### (c. 3000–500 BCE)  
1. **Harappan Emergence** (NW Origin):  
   - Cities rise along Saraswati River (Lothal, Dholavira)  
   - Trade with **Naga serpent-kingdoms** in Deccan  
2. **Eastern Expansion**:  
   - Vedda clans migrate to Ganges Delta  
   - Found **Magadha** kingdom with Yaksha aid  
3. **Southern Hybrids**:  
   - Jharwa-Vanara tribes build **tree-temples** in Western Ghats  
   - Worship Owlman as night guardian  

---

## 👁️‍🗨️ **Current Era** (c. 500 BCE–Present)  
| **Realm**         | **Inhabitants**                       | **Status**               |  
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------|  
| **City-States**   | Humans (Vedda/Naga dominant)          | Flourishing              |  
| **Forest Fringes**| Vanara remnants, hybrid tribes        | Declining                |  
| **Mountain Holds**| Yaksha stone-smiths                   | Isolationist             |  
| **Desert Wastes** | Rakshasha nomad clans                 | Increasingly visible     |  

> *"The gates remember what mortals forget. When stars align, shadows walk."*  
> ― Yaksha inscription, Narmada monolith  

---

**Chronological Anchors**  
- 🌋 **KT Extinction**: Allowed avian-therapod dominance  
- ❄️ **Pleistocene Glaciation**: Triggered Vanara collapse  
- ⛵ **Saraswati Drying**: Forced human eastward migration  

**Unresolved Mysteries**  
- Where did Owlman retreat during the Vedda conquest?  
- Why do Dwarka gates activate during solar eclipses?  
- Are Ammonite Man and Lionman opposing forces?  

---  
**🕰️ Timeline Key**  
- **Bold** = Evolutionary turning points  
- *Italics* = Spiritual manifestations

## Story Snippet Processing

Story snippets are now processed using our custom Hugging Face AI model via the [Vidur Portal](vidur_portal/README.md), an independent web application. This replaces the previous Ollama-based workflow and provides a user-friendly interface for extracting structured data from narrative text.

To process a snippet:
- Use the [Vidur Portal](vidur_portal/README.md) web app, which leverages our Hugging Face model for extraction.
- The extracted data can be integrated into the SouthOfTethys world using the standard Python scripts.

Commit message:

Enhance README with Hugging Face model vision and direct links

README.md, after:

## Hugging Face Model Management

Model pushes to Hugging Face Hub are performed locally using `utils/test_hf_push.py`.
This ensures large files and credentials are managed securely and are not exposed in CI/CD pipelines.
The CI pipeline does not push models to Hugging Face.
**🔗 Direct Links:**
- Streamlit Portal: [southoftethys.streamlit.app](https://southoftethys.streamlit.app)
- Hugging Face Model: [huggingface.co/lordlebu/4000BCSaraswaty](https://huggingface.co/lordlebu/4000BCSaraswaty)

# Vision: Expanding SouthOfTethys

SouthOfTethys aims to be a living, evolving worldbuilding engine that blends procedural generation, AI-powered narrative extraction, and collaborative storytelling. Our vision is to:
- Enable seamless integration of human creativity and AI-driven structure
- Support dynamic timelines, genealogies, and species evolution
- Provide tools for both writers and developers to build, validate, and visualize complex worlds
- Foster a community of worldbuilders who contribute lore, art, and code
- Make all data and artifacts accessible, explorable, and reusable via open standards

With the Vidur Portal and Hugging Face model, we empower users to extract structured data from stories, automate world consistency, and publish interactive artifacts for everyone to explore.
# South of Tethys - Procedural Storytelling Engine

A procedurally evolving storytelling engine inspired by world simulation games like **Dwarf Fortress**. This project manages story events, character genealogy, and evolving flora/fauna in a version-controlled Git repository. Story snippets are now processed using our own Hugging Face AI model for structured extraction.

## 📖 Published Book & Artifacts

The complete "book" of South of Tethys is automatically published with each update:

- **📚 [View Published Book](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/)** - Complete timeline, maps, and world data
- **🗺️ [Interactive World Map](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/interactive_map.html)** - Explore the world geography
- **📊 [Visual Timeline](https://lordlebu.github.io/SouthOfTethys/timeline_mermaid.html)** - Event progression flowchart

### 🚀 Publishing Your Changes

1. **Make changes** to timeline, characters, or world data
2. **Test locally**: `python utils/lint_story.py`
3. **Commit and push** to trigger automatic publication
4. **Manual publication**: Use [GitHub Actions](../../actions) → "CI" → "Run workflow"

See **[📋 Publishing Workflow Guide](docs/PUBLISHING.md)** for complete instructions.

---

## 🛡️ Pre-commit Integration Steps

1. **Place your `.pre-commit-config.yaml` in the project root.**
2. **Add tool-specific configs** (`.flake8`, `pyproject.toml`, `mypy.ini`, `.bandit.yml`) as described in the repo or documentation.
3. **Run `pre-commit install`** to activate hooks for all contributors:
   ```bash
   pip install pre-commit
   pre-commit install
   ```
4. **Run manually (optional):**
   ```bash
   pre-commit run --all-files
   ```

#### Local Auto-formatting with `.git/hooks/pre-commit`

For additional local enforcement, you can use a custom pre-commit hook script in `.git/hooks/pre-commit` to automatically run code formatters and linters before each commit.  
This script will run tools like `black`, `isort`, `autoflake`, `pyupgrade`, `ruff`, and `flake8` on all Python files in the project.

**Sample usage:**
```bash
cp .git/hooks/pre-commit.sample .git/hooks/pre-commit
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
```
This ensures code quality and formatting are enforced locally before changes are committed.  
**Note:** The CI pipeline only runs lint checks and does not auto-fix or format code.

### Manual Code Quality Commands

Before running the following commands, make sure all tools are installed:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can then run the following commands to auto-correct and lint your codebase (recommended: run on the entire project):

```bash
python -m black ./**/*.py --line-length 88
python -m isort ./**/*.py --profile black
python -m autoflake --in-place --remove-unused-variables --remove-all-unused-imports --ignore-init-module-imports ./**/*.py
python -m pyupgrade --py39-plus ./**/*.py
python -m flake8 ./**/*.py
python -m ruff check ./**/*.py --fix
```

### Recommended Minimal Setup
For most Python projects, start with:

- `black` (formatting)
- `isort` (imports)
- `flake8` (linting)
- `pre-commit-hooks` (basic hygiene)

Add `mypy`, `bandit`, and others as your codebase grows or if you need stricter checks.

# Chronology of Jambudweepa  
*From Primordial Seas to City-States*  

---

## ⏳ **Prehistoric Foundations**  
### (c. 500–250 Million Years Ago)  
- **Invertebrate Dominion**:  
  Ammonoids rule shallow seas. The **Ammonite Man** emerges as first spiritual entity - a cephalopod sage whispering through coral reefs.  
- **Avian-Synapsid Epoch**:  
  Flightless therapod birds and sail-backed synapsids dominate landmasses. **Owlman** appears as nocturnal guardian of forests.  

---

## 🐒 **Age of Vanaras**  
### (c. 50–5 Million Years Ago)  
1. **Vanara Zenith**:  
   - Proto-primates develop tool use and fire mastery in **Gondwana forests**  
   - Build tree-cities in the **Nilgiri Canopy** (southern Jambudweepa)  
2. **Great Devolvement**:  
   - Climate shifts fracture civilization  
   - Descendants regress to modern monkeys  
   - **Lionman** appears as sun-spirit guiding scattered tribes  

---

## 🚶 **Human Migrations**  
*(Wave Settlement Pattern: Northwest → East/South)*  

| **Era**         | **Group**       | **Origin**          | **Settlement**          | **Key Traits**                  |  
|-----------------|-----------------|---------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------|  
| c. 50,000 BCE | **Jharwa**      | Zagros Mountains    | Saraswati Delta         | Cave painters, shell worshippers |  
| c. 10,000 BCE | **Vedda**       | Caspian Steppes     | Ganges Plain            | Horse tamers, fire ritualists    |  
| c. 5,000 BCE  | **Naga**        | Indus Valley        | Deccan Plateau          | Serpent cults, metalworkers      |  
| c. 3,000 BCE  | **Outliers**    | Hybrid populations  | Fringe regions          | Vanara-human mixes, bird-speakers |  

---

## 🌀 **Spiritual Beings & Gates**  
### (Timeless Entities)  
| **Being**         | **Manifestation**                     | **Domain**               |  
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------|  
| **Ammonite Man**  | Spiraling nautilus-shell form         | Tethys Sea depths        |  
| **Owlman**        | Feathered humanoid with 360° neck     | Deciduous forests        |  
| **Lionman**       | Maned solar deity with obsidian claws | Deserts/Savannas         |  
| **Gatekeepers**   | Shape-shifting stone sentinels        | Dwarka portals           |  

### 🔮 **Interdimensional Gates**  
- **Dwarka Mechanism**:  
  Stone arches pulsating with blue energy, appearing at cosmic alignments  
  - **Function**: Bridges physical realm with **Asura Loka** (demon dimension)  
  - **Current Status**: Dormant beneath Dwarka city's foundations  
- **Other Portals**:  
  - **Yaksha Gates**: Hidden in Narmada Valley monoliths  
  - **Rakshasha Vortices**: Swirling sand pits in Gedrosian Desert  

---

## 🏺 **Civilization Dawn**  
### (c. 3000–500 BCE)  
1. **Harappan Emergence** (NW Origin):  
   - Cities rise along Saraswati River (Lothal, Dholavira)  
   - Trade with **Naga serpent-kingdoms** in Deccan  
2. **Eastern Expansion**:  
   - Vedda clans migrate to Ganges Delta  
   - Found **Magadha** kingdom with Yaksha aid  
3. **Southern Hybrids**:  
   - Jharwa-Vanara tribes build **tree-temples** in Western Ghats  
   - Worship Owlman as night guardian  

---

## 👁️‍🗨️ **Current Era** (c. 500 BCE–Present)  
| **Realm**         | **Inhabitants**                       | **Status**               |  
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------------|  
| **City-States**   | Humans (Vedda/Naga dominant)          | Flourishing              |  
| **Forest Fringes**| Vanara remnants, hybrid tribes        | Declining                |  
| **Mountain Holds**| Yaksha stone-smiths                   | Isolationist             |  
| **Desert Wastes** | Rakshasha nomad clans                 | Increasingly visible     |  

> *"The gates remember what mortals forget. When stars align, shadows walk."*  
> ― Yaksha inscription, Narmada monolith  

---

**Chronological Anchors**  
- 🌋 **KT Extinction**: Allowed avian-therapod dominance  
- ❄️ **Pleistocene Glaciation**: Triggered Vanara collapse  
- ⛵ **Saraswati Drying**: Forced human eastward migration  

**Unresolved Mysteries**  
- Where did Owlman retreat during the Vedda conquest?  
- Why do Dwarka gates activate during solar eclipses?  
- Are Ammonite Man and Lionman opposing forces?  

---  
**🕰️ Timeline Key**  
- **Bold** = Evolutionary turning points  
- *Italics* = Spiritual manifestations

## Story Snippet Processing

Story snippets are now processed using our custom Hugging Face AI model via the [Vidur Portal](vidur_portal/README.md), an independent web application. This replaces the previous Ollama-based workflow and provides a user-friendly interface for extracting structured data from narrative text.

To process a snippet:
- Use the [Vidur Portal](vidur_portal/README.md) web app, which leverages our Hugging Face model for extraction.
- The extracted data can be integrated into the SouthOfTethys world using the standard Python scripts.
